Massive Blush Wasp

high

# Protocol fees will increase bad debt when liquidating underwater positions

## Summary

When a position is liquidated with a tight margin or a negative margin, the protocol fee sent to `ClearingHouse` will increase bad debt on the protocol and will prevent other users from realizing their profits. 

## Vulnerability Detail

When a position is liquidated, a portion of the trader's margin will be sent to the liquidator and to the protocol, it will happen at `ClearingHouse.liquidate`.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-perpetual/blob/main/perp-contract-v3/src/clearingHouse/ClearingHouse.sol#L193-L194
```solidity
vault.transferMargin(params.marketId, params.trader, liquidator, result.feeToLiquidator);
vault.transferMargin(params.marketId, params.trader, address(this), result.feeToProtocol);
```

The fee sent to the liquidator is crucial for rewarding on-time liquidations and keeping the protocol healthy, however, the fee sent to the protocol doesn't have a purpose and it will sit there without moving. 

The issue is that when a liquidation generates some bad debt, meaning the trader doesn't have enough margin to pay the liquidation fees, the fee to the protocol will increase the bad debt. In this scenario, is possible that the PnL pool is emptied by this fee, preventing other users from realizing their profits and withdrawing them. 

The README states the following in the "known issues" section:

> ClearingHouse may has some surplus margin (from liquidation fee) that can not be withdrawn by anyone yet

The protocol acknowledges that the protocol fee on liquidations doesn't have a purpose at now. Therefore, why collect the protocol fee in scenarios where it could increment the bad debt on the protocol, preventing other users from realizing their profits?

## Impact

When a position is liquidated with a tight margin or a negative margin, the protocol fee will increase the bad debt on the protocol, preventing other users from realizing their profits.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-perpetual/blob/main/perp-contract-v3/src/clearingHouse/ClearingHouse.sol#L194

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

To mitigate this issue is recommended to implement a check that won't collect the protocol fee when the trader's margin doesn't have enough funds to pay it. Otherwise, the protocol fee will cause more bad debt to the protocol without justification, because that fee doesn't serve a purpose.