Massive Blush Wasp

high

# Inability to liquidate whitelisted makers will cause bad debt on the protocol

## Summary

Whitelisted makers like `OracleMaker` and `SpotHedgeBaseMaker` are not liquidatable, and this may create bad debt for the protocol in case the market moves aggressively against their positions. 

## Vulnerability Detail

Whitelisted makers like `OracleMaker` and `SpotHedgeBaseMaker` are currently not liquidatable and that may cause the creation of bad debt for the protocol. Here is the check that prevents the liquidation of whitelisted makers:

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-perpetual/blob/main/perp-contract-v3/src/clearingHouse/ClearingHouse.sol#L166-L168
```solidity
    if (_isWhitelistedMaker(params.marketId, params.trader)) {
        revert LibError.CannotLiquidateWhitelistedMaker();
    }
```

Now, let's see in what scenarios could the whitelisted makers need to be liquidated to prevent bad debt. We'll start with **`OracleMaker`**.

`OracleMaker` has a fairly simple mechanism, users can deposit collateral tokens into the maker and those will be deposited in the Vault as a margin for the maker. When a trader wants to open a position against `OracleMaker`, the maker will take the opposite position, opening or closing positions as necessary. 

Depending on the market sentiment, is possible that traders mostly open positions to one side (short or long), therefore the maker will take the opposite direction. In these cases, when the market is volatile and moves aggressively against the maker's position, is possible that LPs start withdrawing liquidity from the maker to avoid losses. In that scenario, if the market continues to move against the `OracleMaker`'s position, the deposited margin won't be enough to cover for the realized losses, therefore creating bad debt on the protocol.

Now let's see how can **`SpotHedgeBaseMaker`** generate bad debt:

In `SpotHedgeBaseMaker`, the mechanism is a little different because LPs deposit base tokens (e.g., ETH) in the maker. When a trader wants to open a short position against the `SpotHedgeBaseMaker`, the maker will take the opposite direction (i.e., long) and will hedge that position by swapping base tokens for collateral tokens and depositing them into the Vault as a margin.

Now, when `SpotHedgeBaseMaker` has a long position and the market starts falling quickly, LPs are going to start withdrawing liquidity from the maker, therefore withdrawing margin from the maker's position. In that scenario, if the market continues to move against the maker and no positions are closed against that maker, it will arrive at a point where the deposited margin is not enough to cover for all losses, creating bad debt on the protocol.

## Impact

When the market aggressively moves against `OracleMaker` and `SpotHedgeBaseMaker`, it will arrive at a point where the deposited margin is not enough to cover the unrealized losses, creating bad debt for the protocol because they can't be liquidated. 

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-perpetual/blob/main/perp-contract-v3/src/clearingHouse/ClearingHouse.sol#L166-L168

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

It's recommended to allow liquidations against `OracleMaker` and `SpotHedgeBaseMaker` to prevent the creation of bad debt for the protocol. 