Great Taupe Gibbon

medium

# Lack of Stale Price Checking in `_getPrice` Function

## Summary
The `_getPrice` function in the provided contract does not include checks for stale prices obtained from the oracle adapter. This omission could lead to potential inaccuracies in trading decisions and may expose the contract to manipulation or arbitrage opportunities based on outdated price data.
## Vulnerability Detail
The `_getPrice` function retrieves the current price from the oracle adapter based on the market's price feed ID without considering the freshness of the price data. Here's the code snippet of the function:
```solidity
function _getPrice(uint256 marketId) internal view returns (uint256) {
    IAddressManager addressManager = getAddressManager();
    (uint256 price, ) = addressManager.getPythOracleAdapter().getPrice(
        addressManager.getConfig().getPriceFeedId(marketId)
    );
    return price;
}
```
The function simply fetches the price without verifying its timeliness or checking for updates. This lack of validation leaves the contract vulnerable to stale prices, which may result from delays in oracle updates or manipulation of price feeds.
## Impact
One potential impact of this vulnerability is that traders relying on outdated or stale price data may make incorrect trading decisions, leading to financial losses. Moreover, arbitrageurs could exploit price discrepancies caused by stale data, resulting in inefficient markets and reduced liquidity.
## Code Snippet
[#L530-L536](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-perpetual/blob/main/perp-contract-v3/src/clearingHouse/ClearingHouse.sol#L530-L536)
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Incorporate mechanisms to check the freshness of price data before using it for trading decisions. 