Thankful Carob Mouse

medium

# `deposit` function in `SpotHedgeBaseMaker` and `OracleMaker` is prone to slippage

## Summary
`deposit` function in `SpotHedgeBaseMaker` and `OracleMaker` is prone to slippage, as it does not take into account the minimum amount of shares that the user wants to mint for the deposited amount.

## Vulnerability Detail
In the `deposit` function, the shares to be minted are calculated as:

```solidity
            uint8 shareDecimals = decimals();
            uint256 vaultValueInBaseXShareDecimals = _getVaultValueInBaseSafe(_getVault(), _getPrice()).formatDecimals(
                INTERNAL_DECIMALS,
                shareDecimals
            );

            shares =
                (amountXBD.formatDecimals(_getSpotHedgeBaseMakerStorage().baseTokenDecimals, shareDecimals) *
                    totalSupply()) /
                vaultValueInBaseXShareDecimals;
```

shares are dependent on the value of `_getVaultValueInBaseSafe`, which is defined as:

```solidity
    function _getVaultValueInBase(IVault vault, uint256 price) internal view returns (int256) {
        int256 accountValue = vault.getAccountValue(_getSpotHedgeBaseMakerStorage().marketId, address(this), price);
        int256 accountValueInBase = (accountValue * WAD.toInt256()) / price.toInt256();
        int256 spotValueInBase = _getSpotHedgeBaseMakerStorage()
            .baseToken
            .balanceOf(address(this))
            .formatDecimals(_getSpotHedgeBaseMakerStorage().baseTokenDecimals, INTERNAL_DECIMALS)
            .toInt256();
        return accountValueInBase + spotValueInBase;
    }
```             
It can be seen that this value is dependent on `spotValueInBase`, which is the balance of baseToken in the maker contracts. This is prone to exploitation. An attacker, by simply transferring ERC20 tokens to the contract can manipulate the share price.

An attacker who already has some shares minted directly transfers more ERC20 tokens (baseToken) to the maker contract. This increases the share price artificially. When another user deposits, they receive fewer shares than intended. The attacker then soon withdraws their deposit, and since share price values have risen, they get more tokens for each share. Making it profitable. 

Note that front-running is going to become easier on Optimism - https://help.optimism.io/hc/en-us/articles/4444375174299-Is-transaction-front-running-possible-on-OP-Mainnet

Also, it was brought to our attention in the contest's discord channel that whitelist LP is not trusted.

If the whitelist LP is not trusted, then an attacker will not need to directly transfer ERC20 tokens. They can simply deposit and withdraw while sandwiching an innocent user's deposit transaction in between. This will cause users to have fewer shares. Also, this need not be an attack. This can happen in the way the protocol is intended to function. Without any ill intention, a simple combination of deposit and withdrawal transactions is going to cause slippage issues.

Apart from what has been described here. Slippage issues are also bound to happen because of asset price changes. Based on which asset/market the maker supports. Also, various coins will be supported. Considering how volatile the markets have been in this current cycle, asset prices can change drastically from the time the user initiates the transaction to its execution. Since there is no slippage protection, a user is bound to get fewer shares than intended due to drastic price changes.

## Impact
Users will get fewer shares than intended because of a lack of slippage protection.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-perpetual/blob/02f17e70a23da5d71364268ccf7ed9ee7cedf428/perp-contract-v3/src/maker/SpotHedgeBaseMaker.sol#L255

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-perpetual/blob/02f17e70a23da5d71364268ccf7ed9ee7cedf428/perp-contract-v3/src/maker/OracleMaker.sol#L175

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Add slippage checks in place, so that users can input the minimum amount of shares they want on their deposits.
