Future Mahogany Hamster

medium

# First depositor can abuse exchange rate to steal funds from later depositors

## Summary
The deposit function in the provided smart contract is vulnerable to a share ratio inflation exploit, commonly known as a "first depositor attack." This vulnerability allows an attacker to manipulate the share ratio by depositing a small amount of collateral token, triggering the minting of shares, and then potentially stealing funds from later depositors due to truncation during the conversion to shares.

## Vulnerability Detail
The vulnerability stems from the way shares are minted in the deposit function. When the total supply of shares is zero (totalSupply == 0), the calculation of the shares variable allows an attacker to inflate their share ratio significantly. By depositing a minimal amount of the deposited token, the attacker can manipulate the ratio to their advantage, potentially leading to a disproportionate share of the pool.

        if (totalSupply() == 0) {
            shares = amountXCD;
        } 

This condition creates an opportunity for an attacker to exploit the truncation behavior, leading to unintended consequences for later depositors.

## Impact
The impact of this vulnerability is significant, as it allows an attacker to distort the share ratio in their favor, potentially resulting in unfair and disproportionate allocation of funds from later depositors. This can lead to financial losses for users who deposit assets into the vault.



## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-perpetual/blob/main/perp-contract-v3/src/maker/OracleMaker.sol#L187

    function deposit(uint256 amountXCD) external onlyWhitelistLp returns (uint256) {
        ..
        uint256 shares;
        if (totalSupply() == 0) {
            shares = amountXCD;
        } else {
            uint256 price = _getPrice();
            ...


## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
A mechanism should be implemented to handle the case of zero totalSupply during initialization. A potential solution is inspired by [Uniswap V2 Core Code](https://github.com/Uniswap/v2-core/blob/ee547b17853e71ed4e0101ccfd52e70d5acded58/contracts/UniswapV2Pair.sol#L119-L124), which sends the first 1001 LP tokens to the zero address. This way, it's extremely costly to inflate the share price as much as 1001 times on the first deposit.