Generous Quartz Barbel

high

# Instant arbitrage oppurtunity in OracleMaker

## Summary

In `OracleMaker` share value is being calculated using the current oracle price. As pyth oracle can return different prices in same transaction malicious users can extract value from `OracleMaker` by depositing at a lower price and withdrawing at higher price which is an instant arbitrage opportunity.

## Vulnerability Detail

The Pyth network oracle contract allows to submit and read two different prices in the same transaction. So pyth can return different prices in the same trasaction. So an attacker can use these price difference to play arbitrage by depositing huge amount of margin at lower price using flashloan and withdrawing the margin at higher price.

Ref: [https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-flatmoney-judging/issues/216](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-flatmoney-judging/issues/216)

Consider this scenario

1. Lets say current `block.timestamp` is 60 seconds.
2. The price of ETH(base Asset) at time 10 seconds is 3500 and 3510 at 60 seconds.
3. Attacker first submits price at 20 seconds to the pyth oracle and calls deposit of `OracleMaker` (as `_maxPriceAge` is 60 seconds  price at 10 seconds will be valid since its age is only 50 seconds).
4. Attacker then submits the price at 50 seconds to the pyth oracle and then calls withdraw function (price at 60 seconds is also valid as its age is 0 seconds).
5. If the maker has a long position depositing at 3500 price and withdrawing at 3510 will make attacker some profit because share value of OracleMaker will increase as the `accountValue `increases(long position) if the price increases.
6. So an attacker can make an arbitrage profit using the small differences in the prices by depositing huge amount of funds using a flash loan.


## Impact
An attacker can extract value from the `OracleMaker` using arbitrage opportunities.

## Code Snippet
[OracleMaker.sol#L201-L204](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-perpetual/blob/main/perp-contract-v3/src/maker/OracleMaker.sol#L201-L204)

[OracleMaker.sol#L242](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-perpetual/blob/main/perp-contract-v3/src/maker/OracleMaker.sol#L242)

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation

Introduce delay in withdraw function of `OracleMaker`.
