Loud Steel Pelican

medium

# Users will always pay max borrowing fee against SpotHedgeBaseMaker

## Summary

The borrowing fee is a mechanic proposed by perpetual to encourage LPs to deposit into makers. 
As well as reward traders for taking opposite positions.
It acts as an additional bonus to funding fees and is calculated by utilization of the maker. [DOCS](https://perp.notion.site/Borrowing-Fee-Spec-v0-8-0-22ade259889b4c30b59762d582b4336d)

The Utilization Ratio is calculated by: ABS(openNotional of Maker) / margin of Maker (In case margin > 0).
The ratio is also caped at 1. 

This leads to following problem with the SpotHedgeBaseMaker: because the SpotHedgeBaseMaker keeps all funds at idle and 
does not deposit into vault like oracleMaker, the openNotional and margin of SpotHedgeBaseMakerare always 1:1, or close to. 

This will lead to the utilization ratio always staying at 1, meaning that market will always pay full borrowing fee to SpotHedgeBaseMaker.

This discourages LPs from depositing into oracleMaker. 

## Vulnerability Detail

The borrow fee is calculated based on util rate:
```solidity
defaultUtilRatio = FixedPointMathLib.min(WAD, openNotional.abs().divWad(positiveMargin));
```
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-perpetual/blob/main/perp-contract-v3/src/makerReporter/MakerReporter.sol#L35-L64

The spotHedgeBaseMaker only deposits margin into the vault when opening a position:

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-perpetual/blob/main/perp-contract-v3/src/maker/SpotHedgeBaseMaker.sol#L435

This means that the utilization rate of the SpotHedgeBaseMaker is always close to 100%,  
forcing users to pay more fees to the spotHedgeBaseMaker then required.

## Impact

Users always pay 100% of fee to SpotHedgeBaseMaker.
Discourages LPs from depositing into oracleMaker. 

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-perpetual/blob/main/perp-contract-v3/src/makerReporter/MakerReporter.sol#L35-L64
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-perpetual/blob/main/perp-contract-v3/src/maker/SpotHedgeBaseMaker.sol#L435

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Calculate the util rate inside of SpotHedgeBaseMaker and quote it from there.